We learned how to use the slicer,
let's play around with that.
So back on our report page and the first thing I want to do is I want to add a new page, so we press
plus right here, double-click it and call it regions and age groups
and press enter.
So what do I want to do right here?
Well the first thing is, I want to select the slicer again, right here
and no, I don't want that actually, right because I want to create a slicer with the years and didn't
we create such a slicer in the last video? We did, so we can delete that visualization,
go back to the overview,
select the slicer and simply copy it.
So we press control Z and paste it right here and now we have the slicer
that is now referring to that page right here,
so we got that.
Now let's create another slicer,
so I'm unselecting this one
and pressing right here and let's position that slicer right there.
Now what information do I want to have in that slicer?
Well I will like to have the regions in here again,
so let's open the DIM-Region table right there, take the region and position it either right here or directly
in the slicer and we can make this smaller maybe, like this. And now I want to add a third slicer,
so I'm again selecting it, positioning it right here
and in this third slicer, I would like to have the categories, so our age group categories.
So let's open that right here,
let's go to category and drag it into the slicer also, make it smaller maybe and drag it down.
So as I said, I'm not focusing on the formatting in that module.
So now we have three slicers and we know that we can click those slicers like this and like that or like this
and like that but well, we cannot display anything at the moment,
right,
so we need to add a visualization
and this time I don't want to add a line or a column chart,
I want to add a treemap.
Let's see what it is.
So we can find the treemap right here,
this one, I select it and now I made a mistake right
because I kept the slicer selected,
so I have to change back to the slicer now and unselect it.
Now this works
and now we can select the treemap right here,
click onto it and position it maybe right here, right there, like this.
Now what I want to see in that treemap?
Well we have the years, we have regions, we have age groups,
I would like to have the countries in here. To do this,
we first have to select the population as a value,
so I'm scrolling down here and select the population to drag it right there.
Now this doesn't really look good,
so we need to add the country data,
so we go to the DIM-Region table, click right here and drag it to the details field
and now this looks good, right?
Let me increase that a little bit by the way, so like that,
now we have an overview of the population by country and by size and if I now click onto Europe for
instance, you can see that we now only have the European countries in here.
This is really nice but what happens if I click onto the third slicer down here and select adult
for instance? Then this also changes
and I don't want that, I don't want to have that slicer to have an impact on that treemap.
So we have to select that slicer, go to the format menu up here and now click edit interactions
and now I want to make sure that this slicer doesn't have an impact onto that treemap, so we can simply
press none right here.
Now we got that, let's unselect the edit interactions menu and now see what happens if I click right
here,
nothing,
this is really great.
The only problem right now is that this category slicer,
well we cannot display anything right here. So maybe we have to add another visualization to that page
and maybe it makes sense to
now add a table because sometimes, it's bad to see the numbers as numbers and not visualized in a chart.
Now to insert a table, we first unselect the slicer, then we go to the visualizations area right here
and select the table, right there.
If we click that and position it right here
or right there maybe and like this and then we have to add some information to that table.
So the first thing we have to do right here,
we have to go to the DIM-Region table, go to country and drag it as a value, like this
and now we see a list of all the countries in Europe of course and this category, well doesn't have an
impact of course.
Let's select the table again.
The second information I would like to have is the category because I want to see what we selected
also in the table, to do that,
we simply go to the DIM-AgeGroup and add the category right here, like this.
Now we have the country, the category, I might want to add one last thing, the population, right?
So let's go down to the FACT-Population table and select the population right here.
So we drag it into that values area, like this
and now we have the country, the category and the population.
This is really good,
the only thing that's not good is that we cannot see that really well.
So if you now go onto that space between those two columns and increase that, maybe like this and maybe
like that and make the visualization a little smaller, maybe increase it a little bit, you can also increase this one
like that,
so we have that list of the countries, the categories and the corresponding population.
So let's now play around with that and see what we created
now.
So the first thing you could do is we could select 2017 maybe, like this.
Now we selected Europe and now let's select Germany because this is where I'm from,
so let's click that
and we now have the category baby with two different values,
that's strange.
Let's select the adults maybe and select Germany again,
we actually only should have one
value now, right.
We should have the total population of the adults in Germany in 2017,
the problem here is that if you think back about our data model, we have different age groups in the
category adult,
so we have the age groups
I don't remember, I think the total was 29 to 64 I think
and in this range, we have various age groups and each of these age groups is allocated to a category.
So basically we see each age group that is part of the adult category separately and additionally, we
differentiated between male and female
and this is why this list even more increases, so we have to change one little thing. To do this,
we select the table like that, go to population because this is the wrong calculation at the moment and
change the default summarization behavior. At the moment, we say don't summarize, if we change that to
sum, like this, then it summarizes all the values,
so all the values in Germany belonging to the category adult and this 40 million, I think this is quite OK.
So if you now select different countries, we can see that our list or our table changes dynamically, this
is great, right?
The only thing that I don't like right here is the amount of information we have right now,
so I would like to add some filters.
Let's learn how we can do that in the next video.